Beer, a little bit of whiskey.
How often did you see Aggies drunk?
It was rare, very rare.
When you were a company commander, did you ever have to deal with drunkenness in the dronatorium?
No, no.
And Aggies, they smoked.
What would be your guess as to how many Aggies smoked?
I don't know.
I smoked at that time.
What did you smoke?
Cigarettes.
What kind?
I don't know.
Pale male, probably.
Pale male?
Yeah.
Did Aggie smoke cigars?
Sophomores at football games would smoke cigars.
To show off.
And blow smoke and fresh in his face.
But that was about the only time you ever saw him buy a cigar.
And not pipes?
Well you would see some affected people that would smoke a pipe, you know, they thought it looked cool, but very seldom.
Very seldom ever saw that, except at baseball games.
And that's one of the reasons I didn't go to many baseball games as a freshman, because the sophomores would make you chew tobacco when you went down there, and I didn't want to chew tobacco.
And did you and your buddies even, had you even heard any of the words associated with drugs?
Well marijuana, we used to kind of kid around, usually it was the musicians that
that we claim, you know, use marijuana and blacks supposedly use marijuana.
But did you ever see anybody?
I never heard of anybody, never knew of anybody that ever used marijuana.
It was more of a joke than anything else.
Back to being a company commander, did you have or were there any problems that you had to deal with as a company commander in your outfit?
That's your memory?
I really can't think of, think of any.
You didn't have to worry about kicking somebody out or?
No, no.
Never had anything like that.
What was your favorite punishment to inflict on?
Well, cadets didn't, didn't do too many punishments other than, you know, might give somebody some demerits or something.
For, for what?
Well, for their, their room or,
I don't know.
It just, it just didn't, you know, the, there wasn't a punishment system, system in effect really.
But what if somebody, in Aguilingo, what if somebody lipped off at you?
Well you could always kick them out of your outfit.
Did you do that?
Never did.
I don't remember anybody ever lipping off to me.
What were you most proud about that year?
Well I thought we had a pretty good outfit.
Well we didn't have any trouble and we usually placed pretty good in all the indices that told about the company, about how well you graded in the parades and things like that.
Now in ranking the core outfits, intramurals and the review scores and all, were grades part of that, academic grades?
I'm really not sure that, I'm not sure how that factored in.
I know that General Moore Trophy was the big thing and I, grades must have factored in there somewhere.
But most people came down here and went to school four years and graduated.
So you know academics wasn't, and they weeded out, the weak ones got weeded out, usually the first semester, if not the first semester, in the first year.
Chemistry 101, for example, was one of the things that weeded them out.
And I guess English 101 as far as I'm concerned was one of the weeders out.
But there were a lot of people that left at the end of the freshman, end of the first semester
And then there were a number that were on probation, academic probation.
But after that it was, you know, you made pretty good grades and there wasn't too much concern about it, you know.
If you made it through your first year, you're going to make it four years.
And it was, I don't know that I knew many people that went to summer school.
I know some people that went to the Aggie Rest Camp which was southwest Texas and that's what they called it and they'd go over there and take chemistry.
That was one of the big deals.
I think they just went over there because they'd go swimming and there was a nice swimming pool there and a lot of girls.
I'm assuming that you and your buddies did not, as I and my friends did, we didn't calculate our GPA every semester and know exactly what it was to the hundredth.
Oh, no, no, no.
In fact I think they'd give it to you I guess when you got your grades or something.
But see, you had to have, I'm not sure what it was.
At that time it was a three point system.
And I think you had to have a 1.5 to be considered for the RVs.
So that's what I was striving for, is making sure I had at least a 1.5.
But my junior year is when I really made good grades.
I didn't have any distractions and I sat down.
And I studied every afternoon, every night, and made, started making some A's for a change, you know.
All right.
Now, with those accomplishments, to whom did you express your pride?
I'm not sure.
Your grandmother, your mother?
Well, I'd tell them what my grades were, but I never did.
You know, my grades were never such that I could go around and express a whole lot of pride, you know.
I was kind of a B.C.
student, but I had a lot of fun doing it.
Still with being a company commander, so you didn't have to deal with any particular great problem.
Not that I can remember.
Okay.
And no, and no tragedy?
Nobody got hurt badly or anything like that?
No, no, no.
Anything like that?
How much did that, when did you get that ring?
How much did it cost?
Well, I'm thinking it cost 80-something dollars, but I'm not sure.
And I hitchhiked down here.
I think I hitchhiked down.
At the end of my,
End of my junior year I believe it was, to pick it up during the summer.
How did you feel when you put it on?
Oh great, great.
I told them I wanted the biggest and the blackest.
I'm sorry over the years that I didn't take it off like when I washed my hands or take it off at night.
And I think night is the most destructive time because you're moving your hands.
It's just like moving it on an emery board on sheets.
And I should have taken, if I'd have taken it off every night, taken it off when I washed my hands and taken it off when I worked, it might have been in better shape.
Now you can't, you can't read the class or anything else.
It's just all smoothed over.
But it has character.
Do you have some Aggie ring stories?
When I, I wanted to be the Commandant at A&M for many years.
I thought about it.
That's one of the things I wanted to be, do.
Now this is not general officer track.
See, I decided a long time ago I didn't care why I was a general officer or not because I never had met many generals alike, you know, because of their personality and they had to have to get there.
But anyway, so I thought, well, you know, I would like to, I would like to be the commandant at Texas A&M.
And I was over in Germany and found out that Parson had extended, so I extended a year in Germany and I was trying to get the job and wrote
Clyde Wells and Tiger Teague and Jack Williams and I don't know who else I wrote, you know, telling them I wanted the job.
And anyway, I was up for it my last year in Germany and found out that they had, and this is my fifth year in Germany, found out that they had sent a colonel down from the Pentagon to interview for the job.
And he wasn't wearing his ring.
Well you know you've got to strike against you right there.
So he wasn't wearing his ring and there were some other things too.
But anyway he didn't get the job.
And so my daughter was a freshman down here.
In fact she was living over in the Corps areas in the civilian dorm.
And her boyfriend was a squadron commander over there so, and Parsons knew that my daughter was over there.
And so he called over and had my daughter come over to see him.
And this was about April, I guess, of 76, I guess, or yeah, 76.
Anyway, my daughter had been home at Christmas, so it had been 77.
My daughter had been home at Christmas, and I had slipped on the steps and hit my hand on the steps.
They were iced over.
And I broke my ring.
It was broken.
So I hadn't had it repaired, so I wasn't wearing it.
And so she went over to see Parson and Parson said, now, you know, we're going to, I'm going to call your father and tell him if he wants, wants this job that we've turned down the other guy and we want to, we want to interview him and for him to get on over here.
And then she told him about this guy wasn't wearing his ring and she thought, oh, daddy's not wearing his ring.
So she called me and said, daddy,
Whatever you do, get that ring fixed because you've got to wear your ring.
And that's the reason the other guy didn't get the job.
Well there were other reasons I think.
So anyway I got my ring fixed real quick and when I came over I was wearing my ring and I made sure everybody saw I had my ring on.
Have you been other places, some perhaps other side of the world where wearing that ring?
Well, I've run into people, you know, here and there, you and Aggie, but usually it's me asking them if they're an Aggie rather than them asking me.
And you never lost it and it miraculously reappeared?
No.
One I love to tell, when I ask Ray Bowen this,
He said that while he was a graduate student at Cal Tech working on his master's, he was at, I believe, University of Heidelberg and he and three German buddies, graduate students, are taking the train across the Alps to Venice.
And he said, here's this very well-dressed lady, older than he, reading a newspaper on the train.
And she kind of glances over it and she said, oh, you're from Texas A&M?
Well, yes, ma'am.
How did you know that?
Well, I saw your ring.
Well, how did you know that?
My husband went to A&M.
You might have heard of him.
His name is H.B.
Zachary.
Oh, yeah.
And he said, yes ma'am, I have.
Let's see.
Final review, the final day.
What thoughts went through your mind?
Who came?
Well, I think my grandmother and my mother and my aunt came down.
And, you know, I was just ready to get out.
I couldn't go in the Army because I wasn't 21.
So I had a regular commission, but I couldn't get my regular commission until I was 21.
So I had a kind of a piddly job lined up in
Temple because that was right next to Belton's where my fiancée, my fiancée, my girlfriend was.
But you were serious.
Yeah, we were serious enough that I wanted a job there and that was the only job I could find in Temple and it was selling gas refrigerators door to door.
Now if you've ever tried to sell anything door to door it's tough and gas refrigerators, which was a new thing on the market, was really tough.
So I stayed there about
oh, I guess through part of the summer.
And then I went down to try to find out when I'm going to be called active duty because I was 21 on July the 15th and the war had started, see.
The war had started in June 24th, I think, or 5th.
And, you know, I wanted to get, I wanted to get in the war.
So I didn't know where to go.
I went to the recruiting station and the guy said, well, just wait, they'll send you your orders eventually.
Well, he didn't know anymore than I knew about it.
went down to Fort Sam and told them, look, you know, I'm 21.
I've got the regular commission.
I need a job.
I'm starving to death because I quit that job there.
Said, you know, I need a job and I need to get going.
So they said, well, we'll put you on active duty for two weeks.
By that time you'll have your orders.
So I went to Fort Hood for two weeks and I went home and no orders.
And finally in September I got orders and got called in.
I was concerned about getting in the Army when I graduated.
I was concerned about having the girlfriend and belting and seeing her as much as I could.
I was concerned about that job I was going to do.
I really didn't want to do, but that was the only thing I could find.
So those were my main concerns.
How well prepared did you think you were when you graduated?
For what?
For whatever?
I prepared for the Army.
Because I went in, I went in the Army and I'd been there 11 days and they made me a company commander of a, it was kind of a provisional training company, but I was the company commander.
What had A&M taught you?
Well, it taught me how to be a soldier, I think.
Explain that.
Well, I knew the soldier skills.
And what are they?
Well, shoot, move, and communicate, I guess.
But, you know, how to do things, how to march.
And also, isn't it how to work with people?
Well, yeah, it's how to get along with people, how to get people to do what you want to do, even though they don't want to do it.
Were there some people here that you now realize were important in your development of those skills or experiences here?
Well, I don't know that really I could say that there's any one individual, but, you know, I always observed people and saw how they operated.
Like I said, our military instructors were very good, the way they treated us, the way they acted and imported themselves.
That would always impress me.
Now, commencement was held at Guyon?
No, our commissioning was in Guyon.
Okay.
And I think commencement was at Kyle Field.
In fact, Bob Hope, you know, you mentioned a while ago who had come down here.
I saw Bob Hope at Kyle Field.
Did he do an outdoor show?
Oh yeah, an outdoor show.
Do you remember who the commencement speaker was?
No, I think General Gey was the, Hobart Gey was the commissioning officer, I think.
And I don't remember who the commencement speaker was.
And was just like in my days as a junior, name was called.
Oh, yeah.
Everybody went across the stage, yeah.
And is there such a thing as Aggie Spirit?
Well, I think there is, yes.
What creates it?
I don't know.
It's just kind of something that's
you kind of absorb what you've been down here a while.
Are there some events that contribute to that?
Well, yeah, I think, you know, football games and the spirit of the football games, you know, the athletic events and the Silver Taps and the Aggie Muster and just listening to the old Ags tell stories.
What about final review and commencement?
Well, final review and your corps outfit and the esprit de corps you have in the corps and the corps outfit.
And I think that's what a lot of these students are missing.
And all of those are inclusive, not exclusive?
No, they're inclusive, yes.
And did it matter much in your era whether a kid was from a rich family or not?
The only way you knew anybody had very much money is if they had a car.
Like I said, very few people had a car.
But it didn't make any difference, you know.
In fact, I had one guy in my outfit who was, you know, who to this day is a multimillionaire, Tim Word from San Antonio.
And his dad, Dean Word, had, they built every highway between San Antonio and Austin, I guess.
And, you know, he was a big contractor and, you know, we knew that he had a lot of money.
And we knew that he had a lot of money, but he was just another one of the good old boys in the outfit.
And I probably already asked this, but what did you learn at A&M that has been important in your life?
Well, one thing I learned as a freshman, and that was how to take abuse and how to remain cool and calm in a crisis
And I think that paid off, especially in combat, you know, when things would really be bad and, you know, if anybody had to be cool, you had to be cool, and you had to be calm.
And I think that's, from being a freshman in the Corps, certainly helped me that way.
All right, now, but then on the positive side, about leadership, what did, what all did you learn?
Well, you know, it's hard to, first of all, it's hard to describe leadership.
I think one thing is watching other people and seeing how they do things and seeing what works and what doesn't work.
And then trying to adapt what works and avoid what doesn't work.
But treating people fair is really the basis of the whole business.
If you treat people fair and square, then you can deal with them if you're reasonable.
If you could be a consultant to A&M's leadership today, what advice would you give them about
making A&M's future as bright as possible, as good as, you know what I mean to tell you?
Every male has to be in the Corps.
And that would ensure some leadership because they'd have a chance to be led and lead.
And I'm not sure how much they get that on the other side of the campus.
Now, they may get it, you know, a lot of them go into leadership positions in the MSC and things like that.
So that, you know, that's good.
But there are a lot of them that come down here and go through and walk out of here with about zero personality when they came in with zero personality.
And I saw that a lot when I was here, you know, just watching some of these people.
What other advice would you give them?
I'm not sure I could give them a whole lot of advice on leadership other than, you know, just treating people with respect and with dignity.
How large should A&M be?
I think it's plenty big.
See, if I could be the king, it wouldn't be as large as it is.
Well, it wouldn't either.
I would say, you know, 20,000 to 30,000 people.
But politically, you could handle that.
But I think it's big enough now.
What I'm afraid of is it's going to become more and more an elitist school and that you have to be really in the upper crust to get in.
And the good old boys that I went to school with aren't going to get in.
See, when I came here, you had to have a high school diploma.
You had to have a couple hundred bucks
and an ability to hitchhike.
And if you had those three things, you could get to A&M and you could go.
That's about what it took.
Do you know what the literal written requirements were?
The fine print?
The citizen of the state of Texas.
I don't know what it was.
You had to have a high school diploma.
Yeah.
Nothing was said about grades or class rate.
No felony convictions.
Yeah.
And no communicable diseases.
Oh.
Okay.
That was it.
Yeah.
I guess we could add those.
If, let's make believe someone walks up to you and gives you a check for a million dollars with only one requirement, you must pass it on to Texas A&M, but you decide how it will be spent, what would you want it to go for if you had the capacity to give a million dollars?
Well, I think I'd say let's have 90 percent of the Corps of Cadets, and then I'll figure out who gets the other 10 percent.
But what would you have the Corps do with it?
Well, they've got a lot of unfinanced needs over there.
And, you know, they raised 30-something million dollars, but still they've got like endowment for the band, so the band can always go on a trip.
Endowment for the RVs, so if they're invited, they can go.
See, when I was over there as a commandant, most of this stuff came out of these people's pocket.
Cav needs an endowment where they can go and do what they need to do.
They need to, they're trying to develop a leadership, leadership course for non-contract cadets so they'll get leadership training.
The mentor program, give people some kind of rewards for faculty that, that spend time academic, you know, academic advisor, things like that.
They're, a million dollars would just be a drop in the bucket.
Are there some people from your undergraduate days to whom you feel grateful?
Students, faculty, staff, advisors?
Well, Spike White, I think he helped pull that little small group of friends.
See, we started out with about, I think, 38, and we wound up with 12.
And the reason we stayed, hung in there, Spike White had a lot to do with it, a lot of counseling.
And Newt Cole, who was the preacher, who gave us religion when we needed it.
And then I had some guys in my outfit that were awfully supportive.
There's Arthur Ray Hanks, who was over in Longview.
I had Felix, oh, Felix Daly, who was,
who was a good friend.
We were all freshmen together.
And I always thought a lot of Jarvis Miller.
See he was president when I was the commandant.
So we had it going for a while.
And I don't know really any of my problems.
Roland Bing was a great supporter who was, I couldn't think of his name all ago, but Roland Bing in student publications.
was certainly kind of a mentor, I guess you'd say.
But I pretty well, you know, I didn't really have anybody I needed to lean on.
You know, I pretty well was self-sufficient the whole time I was here.
At least I thought I was.
All right, now I've only got one more question I can think of for your student years.
Have we left anything out that we should have included?
that you think of about student years?
Well, I can't think of anything really.
Okay.
All right, then my last question is, what feelings do you carry in your heart today for Texas A&M?
Oh, I love it.
I love it.
Why?
I don't know.
It's been everything to me in my life.
You know, wear that ring with pride and take pride in the school.
I don't know.
It's just like I've got the Aggie spirit.
That's a good ending.